---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2015-09-15
---
Doing these first few WODs, I was honestly at a loss for many of the steps and had to do a lot of google searching and breaking to go back to the basic guides provided in the readings and ended up watching the solution videos after a giving the WODs a few attempts. For all three of the Browser History WODs, I ended up giving them several attemps, up to 6 for the third one, in order to get my completion time, within the Rx-Av range. Doing so many attempts was helpful, because I could gradually see how my notation or code was flawed in comparison to the screencast or google searches, allowing me to make changes and add things in that I did not know and helped me see why my code did not work in many cases. 
Across the board, my first few tries were past the DNF time or only slightly before it. I ended up trying so many times in order to feel confident that I had learned and practiced the skills associated with each WOD. For example, for BrowserHistory3, my first try was upwards of 30 minutes, when compared to my final run though, which was 8 minutes long, because at that point I had tried it myself, fixed my code, and practiced it enough to do it quickly. 
I think that the best thing that could be done for these WODs, is to first try one's best to build the code with as little outside help as possible, thus allowing you to get a baseline and see where you are at. Then trying again, you can start google searching or looking back at readings and guides, because this will help in not only finding correct answers for yourself, but also reinforces things learned previously through the readings and whatnot. Then, once you've done the due diligence, getting help from the screencast and really nailing down the concept is the next step. 
